---
layout: ProjectTemp
title: Research Science Institute -- conducting research at MIT
imagepath: "/assets/img/TennisIcon.JPG"
headerimg: "/assets/img/TrashTerminators2Icon.JPG"
desciption: I have played tennis since age 5 and was on the Phillips middle school tennis team. I also learned to play golf in 4th grade. Last year I played on East Chapel Hill High golf team (JV).
category: XP
---
<h1 class="XPTitle">Research Science Institute (RSI)</h1>

"People say you don't know what you've got until it's gone." Reflecting on my unique RSI experience, I have realized the extent to which my life has changed because of this summer. RSI was truly an "adventure of a lifetime." In the past I have conducted international-level engineering research individually; however, RSI has given me the unique opportunity to interact with a full research team, teaching me the true value of collaboration. It has been a life-changing experience for me to be conducting research at the Aurora Flight Sciences under the mentorship of Jae-Woo, Franklin, and Michael. My mentors were always willing to take valuable time out of their day to explain advanced concepts that are commonly used Aviation Industry to me (material that you would typically learn during a masters degree). They also often pointed out flaws in my algorithms, prompting me to go back to the drawing board and start from scratch. While conducting engineering research over the last four years, I have built my own mini-lab in my bedroom which contains all my electronic and mechanical equipment. I felt at home at Aurora, as my mentors gave me access to one of their fabrication labs which contained all the equipment I was familiar with (and much more complicated machines too)!

One of the key differences between conducting research at home and RSI is that at home I can continuously work alone. After talking to my peers on the first day, I realized that half the RSI experience would be my interactions with my peers. I am glad I forced myself to try something new every week. Some of the most memorable parts include cooking Indian food for International night, organizing and participating in the Indian dance during International night (my first time dancing in front of an audience), singing in the 1 Vector Boyband (my first time singing in front of an audience), playing frisbee during the late night practices  and during the game (my first time playing competitive frisbee), and playing ping-pong with Jenny "The Great" Sendova.