---
layout: ProjectTemp
title: Origami
imagepath: "/assets/img/Origami1.png"
headerimg: "/assets/img/OrigamiBanner.jpg"
desciption: I have been folding Origami for over 7 years now. After learning Origami through books, I have recently started to create my own Origami fold patterns using tutorials from the MIT Origami Math course.
category: hobby
---


<h1 class="HobbyTitle">ORIGAMI</h1>
<p> I have been folding Origami for over 7 years now. After learning Origami through books, I have recently started to create my own Origami fold patterns using tutorials from the MIT Origami Math course. My house is cluttered with intricate three-dimensional geometric origami structures folded with different colored patterns. Mouse over each piece below to learn more about my creations.
</p>
<div id="OrigamiContent">
  <div id="Origami1"><div class="change"><div class="descip"><h1>Origami Luminescence</h1><p>The Origami Luminsecence was folded using 15 sheets of paper creating a total of 30 modules. When assembled 5 of these modules create one face. When combined with 5 other faces the result is an extremley interesting shape.</p></div></div></div>
<div id="Origami2"><div class="change"><div class="descip"><h1>Origami Interlocked Triangular Prisms</h1><p>This Origami piece consists of four interlocked triangular prisms. The model used 18 peices of paper. The 18 sheets were devided in half. Nine of the half sheets create one triangular prism.</p></div></div></div>
<div id="Origami3"><div class="change"><div class="descip"><h1>Origami Omega Star</h1><p>The Origami Omega Star was created with 6 sheets of paper from an geogami paper book which contains origami paper with intiricate geometric patterns specifically for modular geometric origami.</p></div></div></div>
<div id="Origami4"><div class="change"><div class="descip"><h1>Origami Cube</h1><p>The cube was folded using 12 sheets of paper with each sheet creating one edge of the cube. Once each of the 12 modules are finished being folded, the 12 modules are assembled creating the final cube.</p></div></div></div>
<div id="Origami5"><div class="change"><div class="descip"><h1>Origami Turtle</h1><p>Aside from creating modular geometric origami, I also enjoy folding origami animals. This origami turtle, unlike my modular origami, was created from a single sheet of paper.</p></div></div></div>
<div id="Origami6"><div class="change"><div class="descip"><h1>Origami Crane</h1><p>The Origami Crane is the most common origami. The design to this model has been around since 1750. Since this model is intermediate level unlike my modular origami designs which can be considered hard to fold, I challenged myself by creating custom origami paper which I made.</p></div></div></div>
</div>
