---
layout: ProjectTemp
title: Low Cost Sense and Avoid for Aircraft (LCSAA)
subtitle: Improving Aviation Safety using Low-Cost Low-Fidelity Sensors Augmented with Extended Kalman Filters to Develop an Accurate Sense-and-Track System
desciption: Improving Aviation Safety using Low-Cost Low-Fidelity Sensors Augmented with Extended Kalman Filters to Develop an Accurate Sense-and-Track System
imagepath: "/assets/img/LCSAA_cover.jpg"
headerimg: "/assets/img/LCSAA_banner.jpg"
category: proj
---
<h1 class="PostTitle"> {{page.title}}</h1>

## {{page.subtitle}}

# Research Science Institute
<p class="ButtonsArea"><a href="/files/RSI-LCSAA-RohanDeshpande.pdf" class="button-3d">LCSAA Research Paper, written at RSI</a><br>
<a href="/xp/2017/09/13/RSI.html" class="button-3d">My Experience at RSI</a><br></p>

In 2017, I was invited to the Center of Exellence in Education's Research Science Institute (RSI), a prestigious summer research program for incoming high school seniors that held at MIT.
At RSI, I had the privilege of interning at Aurora Flight Sciences under the mentorship of Dr. Jaewoo Choi and Franklin Wu. Aurora is a leader in the development of advanced unmanned systems and aerospace vehicles. My research over the summer involved developing a low-cost aircraft collision avoidance system, with the goal to making air-travel safer. The research paper (link above) was written during the rigorous 6 weeks at RSI.
# Abstract

In recent years, congestion in the global airspace has been increasing at an exponential rate, increasing the probability of an air collision. In addition, many companies plan to deploy autonomous aerial vehicles (drones) for commercial use in the near future, which will exacerbate congestion at low altitudes.  Currently, transponder based collision avoidance systems are in use on large commercial and military aircraft, but not on smaller aircraft due to their prohibitive cost. These transponder-based systems can fail when other aerial vehicles do not have compatible transponder systems installed. Thus, it is essential that all aerial vehicles, whether they are large commercial aircraft, small private aircraft, or autonomous drones, are equipped with appropriate Collision Avoidance Systems. 

I developed a low cost sense-and-track system for aerial vehicles that does not rely on a transponder based collision avoidance systems. The innovation in my method lies in replacing expensive high fidelity sensors with lower quality sensors that utilize more complex filters to develop an accurate sense and track system. My sense-and-track system consists of three components: 1) memory efficient cluster identification algorithms to identify nearby aircraft, 2) state estimation equations using Euler approximations to develop track associations to differentiate between multiple nearby moving aircraft, and 3) Extended Kalman Filters for aircraft position and velocity estimation refinements for tracking. A marine radar was used to test the sense-and-track system for tracking aircraft taking off at Boston Logan airport. The sense-and-track system accurately tracked aircraft in the local airspace, demonstrating feasibility of the low-cost radar system. Modern Collision Avoidance Systems for aircraft cost about $2 million, while the developed Sense and Avoid radar system costs only $2,000. Thus, we demonstrate that the cost of aircraft collision avoidance systems can be potentially reduced by a factor of 1000. If implemented in all aerial vehicles, this low-cost sense-and-track system can significantly improve aviation safety.
