---
layout: ProjectTemp
title: Mag Notes 2
imagepath: "/assets/img/DIcon.jpg"
headerimg: "/assets/img/TrashTerminators2Icon.jpg"
desciption: My Mom is an excellent artist, has taught me many skills about sketching, drawing, and painting. I love to sketch and paint during the summers. Here are a few of my early creations.
category: PhysNotes
---
<script type="text/javascript"
    src="http://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML">
</script>

\documentclass{article}
\begin{document}
{\huge\bfseries Magnetism Notes Part II\par}
\vspace{.5cm}
{\Large\itshape Rohan Deshpande\par}
\vspace{1cm}

In the previous section, we noted that a current in a closed conducting loop placed in the a magnetic field feels forces which create a torque to turn the loop.
$$Current Loop + Magnetic Field \Rightarrow Torque$$
Suppose that, instead, with the current off, we turn the loop by hand. Will the opposite occur?
$$Torque + Magnetic Field \Rightarrow Current Loop$$
The answer is yes... a current does apperar. This physical law depends on Faraday's Law of induction.

Similar to when we calculated the electric flux $\int \overline{E}\cdot d\overline{A}$, we can calculate the amount of amgnetic fiels that passes through a loop:
$$\Phi_B=\int \overline{B}\cdot d\overline{A}$$
This flux can also be algebracally be written as:
$$\Phi_B = BA \cos{\theta}$$
The units for magnetic flux are $1 weber = 1Wb = 1T\cdot m^2$

The induced emf $\varepsilon$ tends to oppose the flux change. This opposition is called Lenz's Law. Thus, Faraday's Law can be combined with Lenz's Law is formally written as:
$$\varepsilon = -N\frac{d\Phi_B}{dt}\quad \textrm{(coil of N turns)}$$
Note that in chapter on Electrostatics, we learnt that
$$\varepsilon = \oint \overline{E}\cdot d\overline{s}$$
$$\oint \overline{E}\cdot d\overline{s} = -\frac{d\Phi_B}{dt}\quad \textrm{(Faraday's Law)}$$

We know that a capacitor can be used to produce a desired electric field. Similarly, an inductor can be used to produce a dersired magnetic field.  We consider a long soelnoid as the basic type of an inductor.If we establish a current $i$ in the windings (or turns) of an inductor (a solenoid) the current produces a magnetic flux $\Phi_B$ through the central region of the inductor. The inductance of the inductor is then
$$L = \frac{N\Phi_B}{i}$$
The unit for inductance is $$1 henry = 1H = 1T \cdot m^2/A$$
Consider a long solenoid of cross-sectional area A. The inductance for this object is written as:
$$L = \frac{N\Phi_B}{i}=\frac{(nl)(BA)}{i}=\frac{(nl)(\mu_0in)(A)}{i}$$
Thus, the inductance per unit length for a long solenoid near its center is:
$$\frac{L}{l}=\mu_0n^2A$$

If two coils - which we can now call inductors - are near each other, a current $i$ in one coil produces a magnetic field $\Phi_B$ through the second coil. We have seen that if we change this flux by changing the current, an induced emf appears in the second coil according to Faraday's law. An induced emf appears in the first coil as well. This process is called self -induction, and the emf that apperars is called a self-induced emf.
The definition of inductance tells us that
$$N\Phi_B = Li$$
Faraday's Law tells us that
$$\varepsilon = -N\frac{d\Phi_B}{dt}$$
By combining these two equations we write:
$$\varepsilon_L = -L\frac{di}{dt}$$
Suppose that you set up a current $i$ in a coil and arrange to have it increase with time at a rate $di/dt$. Based on the right hand rule, assume that the magnetic field is orginally directed downwards. The increasing of the current induces magnetic field in the opposite direction (upwards).

In a previous section we saw that if we suddenly introduce an emf into a single-loop circuitcontaining a resistor and a capacitor C, the charge on the capacitro does not build up immediately to its final equilibrium value. An analogous slowing of the rise (or fall) of the current occurs if we introduce an emf into (or remove it from) a single loop circuit containing a resistor R and an inductor L. Using the loop rule, we can write a differential equation inorder to solve for the current in the loop.
$$\varepsilon-iR-L\frac{di}{dt}=0$$
$$\frac{di}{dt}+\frac{R}{L}i = \frac{\varepsilon}{L}$$
This linear non-homogenous differential equation can be solved:
$$P(t)=\frac{R}{L},\quad U(t)= e^{\int{P(t)dt}}=e^{Rt/L}, \quad Q(t)=\frac{\varepsilon}{L}$$
$$i(t)=\frac{1}{U(t)}\int{Q(t)U(t)dt+C}$$
$$i(t)=e^{-Rt/L}\int{\frac{\varepsilon}{L}e^{Rt/L}dt+C}$$
$$i(t)=\frac{\frac{\varepsilon}{R}e^{Rt/L}+C}{e^{Rt/L}}$$
$$i=\frac{\varepsilon}{R}(1-e^{-Rt/L})\quad \textrm{(rise of current)}$$
In this case the inductive time constant is given by:
$$\tau_L = \frac{L}{R}$$
This previous case contianed a battery, switch, resistor, and inductor. Now assume that the switch is thrown such that the closed loop only contains the resistor and inductor. Without the battery, the current through the loop will begin to decrease. The equation for the decaying current is as follows:
$$L\frac{di}{dt}+iR = 0$$
This homogenous linear DE can be solved resulting in the following equation for the current:
$$i=\frac{\varepsilon}{R}e^{-Rt/L}$$

The energy stored in an RL Circuit can be found my multiplying the equation from the loop rule by the current $i$.
$$\varepsilon i=i^2R+iL\frac{di}{dt}$$
This equation shows the power throughout the circuit. Since we know that the change in energy is defined as the power, we can find the energy stored in a magnetic field.
$$\frac{dU_B}{dt}=Li\frac{di}{dt}$$
$$dU_B = Lidi$$
Integracting yields:
$$\int_0^{U_B}{dU_B}=\int_0^i{Li di}$$
$$U_B = \frac{1}{2}Li^2$$

The charge in a LC circuit can be found using the loop rule and solving its differential equation. Note that $i=dq/dt$
$$\frac{1}{C}q+L\frac{d^2q}{dt^2}=0$$
Solving this linear second-order homogenous DE gives us the solutions:
$$Lr^2+1/C=0,\quad r=\pm\sqrt{\frac{-1}{LC}}, \quad \omega=\sqrt{\frac{1}{LC}}$$
$$q=Q\cos{(\omega t + \phi)}$$
The current can be found by taking the derivative of this equation:
$$i=\frac{dq}{dt}=-\omega Q \sin{(\omega t+\phi)}$$
Note that the amplitude of the sinusoidally varying current is $\omega Q = I$

Finally, consider a circuit which contains a resistor, capacitor, and inductor. Unlike the LC circuit, the resistor in the RLC circuit converts energy from the system into thermal energy. This creates a damped oscialltion. The DE is setup based on the loop rule:
$$L\frac{d^2q}{dt^2}+R\frac{dq}{dt}+\frac{1}{C}q=0$$
$$Lr^2 + Rr+\frac{1}{C}$$
We can solve the quadratic to find the solutions of the DE
$$r=\frac{-R\pm\sqrt{R^2-4L/C}}{2L}=\frac{-R}{2L}\pm \sqrt{\frac{-1}{LC}+\frac{R^2}{4L^2}}= b\pm i\omega$$
$$\omega = \sqrt{\frac{1}{LC}-\frac{R^2}{4L^2}}$$
$$q = Qe^{-Rt/{2L}}\cos{(\omega t +\phi)}$$

Alternating Current:

$$\varepsilon = \varepsilon_m \sin \omega_dt$$
For AC generators, the angular frequency $\omega_d$ of the emf is equal to the angular speed with which the loop rotates in the magnetic field. The current of an AC circuit can be written as:
$$ i = I \sin{(\omega_dt-\phi)} $$


For small values of $R$, the angular frequency of the RLC circuit aproaches $$\omega= \frac{1}{\sqrt{LC}} $$
This is called the circuit's natural angular frequency. When the external alternating emf is connected to an RLC circuit, the oscillations of the charge, potential difference, and current are said to be driven oscilations or forced oscillations.
When the driving angular frequency matches the angular frequency of the circuit, the amplitude $I$ of the current in the circuit is maimum.
This condition is called resonance.

Suppose we have a Capacitor in series with an AC generator. Using the loop rule and definition of capacitance we know that:
$$ v_C = V_C \sin \omega_d t$$
$$q_C = Cv_C = CV_C \sin \omega_d t $$
However, we are interested in current through the loop, not the charge on the capacitance.
$$i_C = \frac{dq_c}{dt}=\omega_dCV_C \cos \omega_d t $$

Recall that the for a resistor, $I_{max}=\frac{V_{max}}{R}$
Similarly, we can call the value $X_C =\frac{1}{\omega_d C}$ the capacitive reactance. This value acts similar to the resistance $R$ of a resistor.
By subsituting $X_C$ into the equation for current we get:
$$i_C = \frac{V_C}{X_C}\sin{(\omega_d t +90^{\circ})} $$
Thus, $V_C = I_CX_C$

Finally, suppose we have an inductor connected to an AC generator. Using the loop rule we know that:
$$ $$
$$v_L = L\frac{di}{dt},\quad \frac{di_L}{dt}=\frac{V_L}{L}\sin{\omega_dt} $$
$$i_L = \int di_L = \frac{V_L}{L}\int \sin {\omega_d t}dt = -\frac{V_L}{\omega_d L} \cos \omega_d t $$
Similar to the method used to determine $X_C$, we see that $X_L = \omega_dL$
$$i_L = -\frac{V_L}{X_L} \cos \omega_d t $$
Using the trig identity $-\cos{\omega_d t} = \sin{(\omega_dt-90^{\circ})}$, we can rewrite the previous equation:
$$i_L = \frac{V_L}{X_L} \sin{(\omega_dt-90^{\circ})}$$

By drawing the phasor diagrams we can write the total impedance for an RLC circuit.
Based on pythagorean theorem, the following equation can be setup:
$$\varepsilon^2 = V_R^2+(V_L-V_C)^2$$
$$ \varepsilon^2  = {(IR)}^2 + {(IX_L-IX_C)}^2$$
$$I = \frac{\varepsilon}{\sqrt{R^2+{(X_L-X_C)}^2}} $$
Similar to how $I=\frac{\varepsilon}{R}$ for a resistor, the total impedence can be written as:
$$Z=\sqrt{R^2+{(X_L-X_C)}^2}$$
The angle of the phasor $\phi$ can be written as the following:
$$\tan \phi = \frac{V_L-V_C}{V_R} = \frac{X_L-X_C}{R} $$

Resonance:
$$I = \frac{\varepsilon}{\sqrt{R^2+{(X_L-X_C)}^2}} =  \frac{\varepsilon}{\sqrt{R^2+{(\omega_dL-1/\omega_dC)}^2}}$$

Since we are looking to maximize the current $I$, we set $\omega_dL-1/\omega_dC=0$
$$\omega_dL = \frac{1}{\omega_dC},\quad \omega_d = \frac{1}{\sqrt{LC} $$


$ $

\end{document}
